Title: A Compelling Conspiracy
Date: 2024/11/08 12:35PM
Category: Essays
Author: Mike Russell
Tags: philosophical, reflective, serious

I love a good conspiracy theory, whether it involves shady government coverups or shape-shifting lizard people. What outrageous claims they include! Alas, to my chagrin, they're not all true. Indeed, many are based on bad research, anecdotal evidence, and reaching suppositions.

Perhaps you've heard some of these propagated by eccentric believers. Their evangelism reeked of paranoia and mental instability. No rational person would believe such things, we tell ourselves. And mainstream intellectuals bolster our doubt and reassure our skepticism, leaving us with smug self-confidence in our position.

However, often folks exercise skepticism prior to investigation, pretending to be scientific while lazily hiding under the protection of their esteemed masters of ethos. Perhaps some claims don't warrant serious study. But don't con yourself into thinking you're the intellectual when all you've done is effortlessly agreed with mainstream thought rather than engaged in any serious research.

I've found that the bedrock of the conspiracy-minded is distrust, sometimes paranoia. Human psychology is poorly equipped to respond to traumatic, paradigm-shattering revelations—leaving many drowning in the waters of psychosis. Once a sensibly constructed view of reality is demolished, then comes the violent waves of paradox, contradiction, and meaninglessness. When the faith of youth is challenged, fidelity of the strong corroded, one thinks, "If I was wrong about that, what else have I been wrong about?" In this psychically weakened state, this morphs into an all-encompassing self-doubt, a crucible of sanity.

From this foundation of uncertainty, things that used to be impossible become possible. In turn, Nixon's watergate scandal and Operation Northwoods give precedent for 9/11 being an inside job; Tuskegee syphilis studies make anti-vaccine sentiments sound reasonable; MKUltra and LSD make government corruption and credence for supernaturalism palatable; Big Tobacco's production of fake science, COINTELPRO, CIA's malicious actions on JFK and MLK, Jack Parsons and rocket science, Presidents attending Bohemian grove, the list goes on! There's been no shortage of corruption, scandal, and manipulation by institutions we're taught to put our trust in. Government, science, academia, etc., each has committed egregious faults worthy of earning distrust and disgust.

It's no wonder some respond by clinging onto ideas, some of which are verifiably delusional. They've inherently lost trust in institutions and authority. Give them peer-reviewed research, demonstrable logic, and opinions of reputable scientists all you like. It's of no use while their faith has been severed. From this frame of mind, the esoteric claims of charismatic cult leaders is more appealing ([ref](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branch_Davidians)). I say this to help us understand why some people believe ideas that many find absurd.

There's another side to this coin—the unwanted possibility of the sensational. We're children of the age of reason where the puerile supernaturalism of yore is looked upon with scorn. The ancient gods were reduced to wood and stone, the witch turned out to be nothing more than an onery old hag, and the legends of cyclopes were really confabulations of ones who'd never seen elephant skulls ([ref](https://www.ancient-origins.net/myths-legends-europe/cyclopes-0017369/)). Bit by bit, our magical world was torn down to a clunky old machine. Mysteries turned to banalities and curiosities to boredom.

When coming from this context, not only is it radical to consider things like UFOs and the reality mainstream demonic worship, it's a social liability. It's woven into our DNA to be averse to exhibiting stigma-inducing behaviors of our society. Despite having intellectual conviction, Galileo's wrestle in disclosing his discoveries was long and difficult. Are you disbelieving due to bias or as a consequence of personal reasoning? I'm surprised to find how some will refute claims of UFOs while being clueless about the arguments and cases they're throwing out ([ref](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentagon_UFO_videos)). I'd expect at least a cursory knowledge to accompany such a confident opinion.

We ought to maintain humility, keeping in mind that while science has delivered many wonderful successes and theories, it's also had a share of embarrassing moments; e.g., the predicted population bomb of the 60s—only to find that many countries are now facing a lack of population; environmental scientists claiming global cooling and predicting an ice age in the 70s—a virtually opposite claim to what you'd get today; the Ozone hole panic of the 80s—an overstatement, we'd now say; and we don't have space to list the mainstream psychology and medical ideas that have been touted seriously only decades ago but are now thrown out in hopes to be forgotten. Political overreach, funding bias, replication problems—science is not sure or concrete.

Don't get me wrong, science is valuable and mistakes are part of the learning journey. It's unreasonable to require a flawless record. I only bring this up to demonstrate aptness of humility here. I've seen enough to know that I don't know.

I am open to many strange and mysterious ideas, but I believe few things with confidence and almost nothing with absolute certainty.
