Title: The Heifer Haunting
Date: 2024/9/30 2:42PM
Category: Short Stories
Author: Mike Russell
Tags: comical, whimsical, satirical, surreal, halloween

There once was a man who lived with his wife and children in a small cottage in the woods. He owned an old cow whose milk was running dry. The man was poor and had little to eat besides the milk, cheese, and butter produced from the cow. The man's wife and children complained for their hunger and the man went to punish the cow. He scolded her, saying, "You old cow! What good are you if you can't make us milk? We shall starve because of you." The man then realized he could kill the cow and feed his family with her meat. He told this idea to the cow to which she responded, "Don't kill me or I shall haunt you." The man responded, "You shan't frighten me any more as a ghost than you do while alive by causing us such great hunger. Therefore, I will butcher you and we shall be fed and well for a long time."

So the man killed the cow and his family was well fed upon beef that night. They did not complain of the lack of milk, cheese, and butter. But as the man slept that night, he heard a fearful noise. It came from outside. He put on his trousers and boots and ventured outside. As he opened the door, he beheld a bovine apparition, and he recognized it instantly to be his old cow. She lowed, groaned, and moaned making terrible faces at him.

The man was quite bothered by the cow's behavior and shut the door on her. He attempted to go back to bed, but the lowing, groaning, and moaning made sleeping impossible. He opened the door again to meet the cow to see if diplomacy could solve his dilemma. "Cow, you must understand how hungry my family has been due to your milk supply drying up", he said. "We were left with few choices." To which the cow lowed the louder.

This continued for a few nights and the man became so tired for lack of sleep that he couldn't stay awake during the day. His wife and children suffered in the same way, too. Then the man came up with an idea. He got some cotton and plugged his ears and those of his wife and children. That night they lay in their beds with plugged ears and couldn't hear the cow's haunting, lowing, and groaning.

They awoke in the morning having slept well for the first night in many. The cow noticed her attempt to annoy the man was thwarted. That night she flew up to the moon and bade the moon follow her down to the window of the man's house. The moon so did and lit the house entirely as if it were day. The man opened his eyes at the light wondering if it were morning already. "How can it be morning when I'm so tired? I couldn't have slept more than an hour", thought he. But when he looked out his window, he saw his old ghostly cow smugly standing by the moon which was blindingly bright.

For several nights this went on and the man could not sleep well at all. But an idea came to his mind to solve his problem. He made some leather eye masks that he and his family could wear while sleeping. That night they tied the eye masks on and though the moon shown through their window and lit their room as bright as day, their eyes saw only darkness being covered by their leather eye masks. The cow saw again that her attempt to annoy the man was thwarted and she conjured up another plan.

As the man lay down to rest that night a foul and putrid smell filled his house. He scrunched his nose wondering, "Whatever could that awful smell be?" His children and his wife complained at the smell saying that it made sleep impossible. The man put his boots and trousers on and went outside to find the old ghostly cow flatulating profusely in his direction. The cow lowed with a gloating and victorious tone and the man crossly slammed the door.

The next day the man's wife suggested they use clothes pins to plug their noses. That night they each did this and were able to sleep through the night for they could not smell the awful smell as their noses were plugged. The next day they awoke well rested and satisfied. The cow saw that again her attempt was foiled and thought for a long time how she could disturb the man again. She could not do so with noise for the man had plugged his ears. She could not do so with light for the man had covered his eyes. She could not do so with stink for the man had plugged his nose.

Then she crafted one last idea to punish the man. That night she stomped upon the ground so hard that it caused the earth to quake around his house. The man and his family lay in their beds bouncing up and down with each stomp. The quaking so disturbed the man that he could not sleep at all that night. This was a problem the man did not know how to solve. He thought all the next day how to remedy the problem, but nothing came to mind. The next night the cow again began to march around the house stomping so hard that the whole house quaked. The family didn't get a wink of sleep. The next day the man's two children were playing outside despite being very tired from lack of sleep. The older of the two was a boy of seven years and the younger a girl of five.

The brother pretended to be a wolf and chased the girl as she ran laughing. Then she said to her brother who was still pretending to be a wolf, "You wolf, you should chase our old cow away whose ghost won't let us sleep." The brother said, "Why yes, what a wonderful idea!" And together they colluded how to chase the old cow away that night. The girl with the help of her mother sewed a wolf costume for her brother. The brother found the carcass of a wolf and took the head home for his mother to work into the costume.

That night the boy snuck out and hid in the trees until it was dark. The rest of the family lay in their beds. The father said provoking their ruse, "I sure hope the old cow doesn't come tonight for I am very weary and tired." The cow heard this and snickered, then appeared saying, "You won't be sleeping tonight. For I shall haunt you thoroughly until morning light." Then the cow began her stomping and lowing and farting and puffing.

Just then, the boy who had been hiding in the trees dressed in his wolf costume came out barking and growling at the cow. The cow was terribly frightened at the sight of the wolf and began to float away. But because the boy was wearing as part of his costume the head of a dead wolf, the spirit of that lupine carcass floated along with him and when seeing the ghost of the cow, the wolf's ghost chased after until he caught up with the cow and gobbled her up in one bite. The ghost of the wolf was then satisfied and it howled at the moon and disappeared.

And that was the end of their troubles with the cow. The man and his family were again able to sleep peacefully each night. He and his family then began a trade selling ear plugs, eye masks, and nose plugs to those who were troubled at night by loud, bright, or smelly roommates. He became quite wealthy from this trade and lived happily and well with his family from there on after.