Title: When Language Frustrates Meaning Date: 2025/12/30 3:54PM Category: Essays Author: Mike Russell Tags: educational, philosophical, reflective
 
A proposition's validity may be achieved via reasoning through a system of axioms or definitions: dogs are animals, red is a color, 2 + 2 = 4. Conversely, we may arrive at a conclusion by empirical observation: dogs are fast, red is lovely, a cup of water is wet. *A priori* and *a posteriori* are philosophical terms used to distinguish between these epistemologies. The former is Latin for "from the former", and the latter: "from the latter", conveniently; though, their literal translations are less helpful than the preceding respective descriptions which appropriately convey the senses in which they are used.

In questioning assumptions inferred by this dichotomy, it may be questioned whether justification for any idea can come about void of experience. An empirically agnostic intelligence's existence is conjecture. It is a great deal more to claim such could devise a system of thought and language capable of sustaining *a priori* methods; e.g., Wittgenstein's private language.

All forms of observable life are manifested from explicit encodings—DNA, not tabula rasa (*blank slate*). Instead of encoded systems emerging from isolated intelligence, we get intelligence emerging from encoded systems. If isolated intelligence exists, no documented interaction with it has been made.

This leads to my next point: mere interaction would taint such an instance with experiential data implicit in our language. Large-language models demonstrate that semantics and beliefs are encoded within the very structure of language. Precisely, language, as any vessel of communication, is a mapping between concepts and representation. A mere comprehension of the representation implies assimilation of concepts. This makes any experiment where language is injected into a system incapable of demonstrating isolated intelligence as described.

If an isolated intelligence were to exist, its conception must originate from a womb devoid of embeddings, language, or structures which contain any mapping of ideas. Otherwise, it would be infected with preconceived notions, making it unisolated. DNA is inherently encoded with meaning, ruling out conceivable material lifeforms. Perhaps even matter itself contains structures and systems symbolically suggestive of meaning which would further obfuscate the possibility of true isolated intelligence. It may be suggested that such an intelligence has no conception and is self-existent. The existence of such a phenomenon would be so remarkable and incomprehensible that any discussion of its function or existence would be futile. Yet, seeing as how the universe's existence may fall into this category, we are unequipped to refute the possibility.

Perhaps intelligence is written within the framework of the universe, explaining the emergent patterns, structures, properties, etc. Then isolated intelligence becomes the chicken and existence its egg.