Title: About
Date: 2025/04/15 09:46PM
Author: Mike
Slug: about
Summary: Learn more about the purpose and inspiration behind Runic Relics, a literary collection exploring spiritual, philosophical, and linguistic creativity.

## Welcome to [Runic Relics](/) 👋

I'm **Mike** and this is a digital collection of poems, stories, and other writings I've produced. All of the content is hand-written—no AI slop or copied content. You'll get an eclectic array of diverse themes ranging from jovial or comical to philosophical or existential. Some of my poems are mere practice exercises to help me expand my vocabulary, others are expressions of questions or thoughts I've wondered.

You'll find that this site includes an index for all poems as well as a search bar. Poems have also been categorized with tags. Note that these tags were generated by AI and, consequently, may not agree with my personal preference. In time I may correct some of them. But I hope they can serve some utility despite their possible misapplication.

## How the Site Works

I built **Runic Relics** using [Pelican](https://getpelican.com/), a static site generator that converts simple Markdown files into a polished website. Content I write begins as a Markdown file, allowing me to focus on the words themselves. A simple 
<span class="inline-block bg-gray-200 text-gray-700 font-mono text-sm px-2 rounded-md">
    git push
</span>
brings new creations to life on the site via [GitHub actions'](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) automated flow. I'd like to thank creators of these tools which allow this site to be deployed and hosted at absolutely no cost to me!

Thank you for visiting Runic Relics. I hope this content inspires thought, sparks curiosity, or simply brings a smile. Feel free to explore, reflect, and enjoy this evolving collection of verses.

---

> In the beginning was the Word…
> 
> <span class="float-right -mt-3 font-bold">– John 1:1</span>
